# How to: Create a Keybeat gif

This short guide should outline the basics of using keybeat to
synchronize your favorite gif or webp animations with the music beat

## First we need a matrix device

If you don\'t already have one, follow this guide to create a dummy
matrix device: <a href="dummy_matrix.html">How to: Create a Keybeat gif</a>

64 x 64 is the maximum size that can currently be correct displayed in
the browser UI due to the limit of 4096 pixels communicated to the front
end. However, any size can be used with physical devices, development
and test is generally done on a 128 x 128 panel at 16K pixels

## Setting up Keybeat

On opening our new device, select the keybeat effect and then hit the
matrix display button as per (1)

![Select keybeat and turn on the matrix display](/_static/howto/keybeat/keybeat1.png)

You should get this animation which is basically a warning that the
currently referenced GIF listed in \"image location\" which at this
point is empty is not valid

![This shows we have an invalid image location](/_static/howto/keybeat/keybeat2.png)

To test a valid GIF path lets try a preset, in this case Caddyshack as
per (1)

<video width="640" height="360" controls>
   <source src="../_static/howto/keybeat/keybeat3.mp4" type="video/mp4">
   Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video>

We should see the GIF animation playing to the music beat, and a valid
file path in the \"image location\" in this case on a windows host taken
from the ledfx install files at
C:\Users\your_user_name\PycharmProjects\ledfx\LedFx\ledfx_assets\gifs\caddy.gif

## Choosing your own GIF

But it could be any path on the system, with the relevant OS path syntax
OR a valid URL to the internets

So now lets do that and choose a random webp ( more effiient than a GIF
) from the great wild west of content. Noting this particular URL may
not be valid in due course, but the method will be valid

<https://media4.giphy.com/media/v1.Y2lkPTc5MGI3NjExam56cng1bjcyZWRpMzlsb2M1MG5yb3VvaTZxZTI5aDV4Nm81cXFpcCZlcD12MV9pbnRlcm5hbF9naWZfYnlfaWQmY3Q9Zw/c76IJLufpNwSULPk77/giphy.webp>

<picture>
   <source srcset="../_static/howto/keybeat/keybeat4.webp" type="image/webp">
   <img src="../_static/howto/keybeat/keybeat4.webp" alt="Example animation">
</picture>

Paste the URL into (1)

Ensure that (2) is true to force stretch the image to the display ( or
if you are adventurous, you can leave that false and play with center
and stretch sliders

Set (3) to True for ping pong, this will auto play the animation in
forward and reverse, so you don\'t need to worry if the animation loops
nicely. For most animations this is very useful.

![Setting the image location and options](/_static/howto/keybeat/keybeat5.png)

Half Beat allows you to interpolate beat frames to every second beat, so
half the playback to the music beat speed (edited)

Ping pong skip will ignore the start and end key frames on playback
which sometimes helps to stop a ping pong playback from looking glitchy.
Just try it when everything else is done or ignore it.

Skip frames is to allow removal of bad animation frames from playback
and interploation calculations, some very nice GIFs tend to have some
bad frames in the beginning or end, so you can remove them if you have
to. Generally ensure this field is empty

## Setting up the beat key frames

Beat frames is the heart of the engine for matching the animation to the
music beat. Right now we have inherited values from CaddyShack or which
ever preset you may of started with so make sure you clear off (1). Just
replace it all with a space, if your edits don\'t stick. ( hey it\'s a
bug, we know )

![Setting the beat frames](/_static/howto/keybeat/keybeat6.png)

Now we need to set up the real beat frames where we want the animation
to land on each beat of the music. You could just type them in here
seperaated by spaces, using external software to examine the GIF, but
that sounds like no fun, so lets press the button at (1) and use the
magic developed by Blade

![Fire up the frame selector](/_static/howto/keybeat/keybeat7.png)

![Starts at frame 0](/_static/howto/keybeat/keybeat8.png)

We currently have no beat frames, and the blue slider is on frame 0

I want a beat on the start of this animation so click the main picture
to mark this frame as a beat frame

The frame turns blue so you know the current frame is a beat key, and we
see the frame number added in the string at the top and marked on the
slider timeline

![Frame 0 marked as a beat frame](/_static/howto/keybeat/keybeat9.png)

Using the slider, next select the next frame to key to the beat, using
skill and judgement. In this case when the bear has first opened the
heart string, which is frame 7, so we slid the slider until we liked the
animation frame, and click the main image ( you can deselect a frame the
same way ). The border turns blue, and 7 is added to the string and to
the slider timeline

![Frame 7 marked as a beat frame](/_static/howto/keybeat/keybeat10.png)

Add more frames until you are satisfied, you can always come back and
edit until you are happy. In this case I only want 1 more frame at 14.
The keybeat interpolator will deal with ensuring the intermediate frames
are played back for maximum smoothness.

![Frame 14 marked as a beat frame](/_static/howto/keybeat/keybeat11.png)

When you are done return to the main effect page with OK

You should see your keybeat frames as selected in the beat field at (1)

## Save your work as a user preset

DONT FORGET to save your hard work by adding it as a new preset each
time at (2) you can do this each time with a slightly different name,
and delete the old one\...

![Saving your hard work](/_static/howto/keybeat/keybeat12.png)

## \...Profit

Play music, make that bear earn those dollars, make it rain\....

Remember you can play local gifs and webp just as easily as remote URLs
with the local OS path format, for example

C:\Users\your_user_name\Downloads\duck.gif

Also remember that there are a lot of glitchy GIFs out there, before
balming LEDFX convince yourself using 3rd party software the animation
is otherwise good. If you are sure the file is good and LEDFX is at
fault then raise a #help_and_support

It would not be the first time its ledfx, but please sanity first\...
